Let's go do this,
man that pun will never get old, right?
All right, so I'm gonna go back
into my projector folder, so
remember I'm in package projector.
A little bit different than
the typescript world and
I'm gonna add the word config.go.
Now, something that's kind
of interesting in here is,
notice that I'll use the term
package projector, right?
Because that is my containing folder,
right?
It is projector but look at what's kind of
neat about that is I like this type Foo
struct and just do that really quickly
I'm gonna jump back to my main file.
Noticed that my projector file now
also has Foo but it also has the Opts.
So all files underneath the same
kind of sub package of package,
they will share all of their exports.
But it also means you get access to some
private things, which is kind of neat so
you can kind of do some nice splitting up
of code things is a little bit easier to
manage within a package.
I'm trying to think of the correct,
I think it's equivalent to
the Java no scope, right?
Everything within your
package can share it, but
everything on the outside can
only be access to the public.
I believe that is what it is,
it's a weird scope, right?
It's not a easy scope to kind of reason
about but that's effectively it.
So, let's jump back, I'm gonna remove
that really quickly and remove that.
So let's do the exact same thing.
We're gonna create a operation enum, and
then we're gonna create a config struct,
and then we're gonna fill in
all those values that we need.
So exact same principle right here.
So let's go type Operation equals int,
and then const
Print Operation equals iota.
Have you ever seen Ace Ventura?
When nature calls, when Ace Ventura
has the spear in his leg and he says,
iota don't just stand
there throw me a spear.
That's what I think of
every single time I do.
I know this is a Greek word but for
me, it's just like that scene pops up
in my mind every single time I do that.
Don't just stand there, throw me as beer,
it's just the greatest lie, okay?
Anyways, that was weird.
So now, that we got that done let's
do the config as well, and so
let's create another type Config struct.
And so we'll do the exact same kind of
setup because go doesn't allow you to do
something different.
Now, if you're thinking about Rust we
could probably do something a little bit
different here, right?
Because we have access
to these some types.
So, we can be a lot more clever about
how we store information whereas
with this one right, we have to kind
of go with this whole array approach.
But the array has multiple or
single values or no values so we'll see,
that's why I feel like Rust is less error
prone cuz you can be a little bit more
specific with your types, all right?
So let's go here, type Config struct,
we'll have Operation,
remember always have to be capitalized,
which is an operation odd looking.
Let's do a present working directory,
which will be a string lowercase,
and we'll have a Config which
will be string lowercase.
And let's also have at the top
a string array, so there you go.
That's what we need, of course,
proper indenting is always desired by go.
So there you go, they like to align those.
If you don't like the alignment, you
can always add an extra space in there,
re-execute it and
then it'll align various groups.
Because every now and then you'll get
just some silly one that just goes on for
a while.
And then you try to do that and you're
like, gosh, I hate this, I hate that.
And so put a space if you need a space.
All right, so there we go,
we have the exact same thing.
Now, we have to build the same methods,
we already know the same methods we need.
So I'm just gonna write them all
out in order, do the export and
then we'll work our way backwards, right?
So we need a first,
we need to get present working directory,
which is gonna return a string or
an error.
Because remember everything in go just
always assume there's probably going to be
an error.
You'll be a lot happier in your life.
Let's do the exact same thing,
Config but we also need the opts
what is called, opts there we go,
we want that one, right?
There we go,
we'll do that with ConfiggetOperation.
We'll assume that this one
is probably no error, right?
That's just seems right.
And then we already know that getArgs
will definitely have an error, right?
We've already pre-planned it,
it should be a string, array, or
wrong side for the array.
Remember it's, Error, there we go.
That seems about right those
are the same methods we had before, so
hopefully we can just go through now,
and just do it easily.
So I'll go like this func NewConfig and
that's gonna
return out a pointer to a Config or
an error, awesome.
I'm getting no LSP answers, when I see
nothing's getting any LSP problems,
I just assume there's a problem, and
of course, I added all these colons.
Don't add colons, they're not good for
your health, there we go, fantastic.
Always a good identifier, you mess
something up is when the LSP stops working
that's why I got so worried when
Rust wasn't working, I was like man,
I'm screwing something up but
I don't see it.
All right, so let's just start
from present working directory.
We'll work our way down because we're
gonna have a lot of errors down here,
and I don't want to try to guess
what that's gonna look like.
Let's just get it all done up here first.
All right, so of course,
standard thing if opts present working
directory is not an empty string.
Just like before, right,
we do that and a nil.
Fantastic, pretty easy to do.
The other one was just not empty or
didn't exist,
this one's just simply an empty string.
So, if it is an empty string,
we need the present working directory.
Now, we have this package called
OS that has, I wanna say,
it has the word Dir in it,
current, my goodness,
present Get working directory,
that's what it is.
So you just have to remember what
these things are, there we go.
Spend a little time letting your
brain remember what it could be.
So we're gonna have present
working directory and an error.
So I was right,
of course there's always an error.
So let's do this except for
we don't return nil we can just
return an empty string, awesome.
Else we have our present working directory
let's return present working directory and
of course nil.
Now, if you look at this thing though,
what does it return?
It actually returns the exact
interface we're returning.
So we can kinda shortcut
this whole process and
use its two arguments it returns for
our two arguments.
So someone else can handle it,
kinda like a nice little shortcut.
So if something returns two arguments,
you return two arguments.
They can kind of flow through,
it feels good, right, feels good.
So I'm actually gonna just
take this whole thing and
I'm gonna go down to getConfig, replace
present working directory with Config,
if a Configs there we'll
just use their Config.
But at this point we have to do
something a little different, let's go.
I'm gonna call this XDG, and
of course, we're gonna have err and
we're gonna go OS.GetUser,
there we go, UserConfiDir.
So this actually has a nice little
strategy where they actually have their
own method for you so
you don't have to know a lot about it.
I find this to actually be pretty nice,
right?
That they provide this for you.
I think this is why go is often
used in a lot of tooling,
is that it has a lot of nice little
functions for handling these differences.
It also has a really powerful add parser,
the one we use is really simple.
But if you ever wondered how docker has
like all these different positional ones
with different flags and all that,
they have ufav-CLI parser I
think is what it's called.
Ufav, yeah, ufav-CLI something,
it actually has it, it's really amazing.
So I really appreciate a lot
of the go kind of CLI stuff.
So anyway, so we have this.
We obviously have the ConfigDir here,
we'll call it just Config for now.
And we have the err if there is an err,
we do need to return an empty string.
If there's not an error,
now we can do something with it.
Remember we have to mutate it,
we have to add in extra stuff.
So I'm gonna return a path,
this looks really familiar, right?
Is it Join?
Look at that, it's the same thing.
So we can go Config projector, right?
Projector.json, right?
So I didn't add nil.
So notice that I did not do the home one,
we could do the home one right here.
That is an option, but
we can just also cut it right here.
However, you guys want to do it,
add in the things you want.
I don't think there's a lot of value in me
showing you, yes, you do an else here and
then do this again, right?
All right, awesome.
Exact same thing with operation we do
pretty much the exact same code, right?
So I'm gonna go len opts,Args,
if it equals 0 return print, awesome.
Else we need to kinda do that
same kind of error checking,
so I'm gonna go if opts.Args 0 equals add,
well,
then we need to do if opts.args,
length does not equal 3 then
we got do some stuff right.
Here's the confusing part, no, wait,
that's I'm doing the wrong one return,
not yet, sorry,
not yet, I'm doing the wrong one there
let's go like that print this and go.
If it's RM do remove, else,
return Print, there we go, awesome.
This is the operation I was
doing the Args and all that.
Awesome, so let's pretty much grab.
I'm gonna grab that whole thing and
go down to Args and paste it in here.
If it is an empty one, well, I just simply
need to return back out an empty array,
right?
Awesome.
But this one wants to have an error.
So, I'll throw a little error in there,
fantastic.
Now, let's do the exact same approach
we did in the typescript one.
If the Args is 0, and it's an add,
then we need to go if Len opts,
hey, no, Args up,
I've lost autocomplete for
whatever reason does not equal 3,
well, what do we need to do?
Well, we can return a nil, and
then now we need to return an errors.
There's two types of errors.
I kind of showed you one earlier,
we either format a new error right here or
we can use the errors package,
right, we can use the errors package.
Is there one that I strongly prefer
look even tab nine is just telling
me right there this is what you should do.
And so we could use this, hey, that's
really nice look at how add requires 2
arguments but got, and
then we could go through and do this.
But for this one, let's just use a format
F because it's really easy, it's nice.
So ErrorF, add requires 2 arguments,
but received that len opts.Args, awesome.
So now,
we just simply need to return this.
So we just need to take
the slice of the remaining Args.
Go has an amazing thing
that I wish typescript had.
We can just say, hey, I want that, right?
I like that they have these things
available, I think it's really clever.
It's just something I've
grown to appreciate is
having these slices available.
There you go,
you just take that you just have it.
We need to do this exact same
thing now with remove, right?
So let's just turn it to remove decrement
it wants decrement at once, same code.
Now, we remove that.
Wow, all right,
as it's about as easy as it gets, right?
We could probably be open,
we don't wanna do that.
We could make this a little
bit more clever and
I'm sure I could produce this into some
sort of length checking type item and
then we don't have such duplicate code.
But rule of three, Martin Fowler,
I'm only doing this twice so
I'm not gonna refactor it into
something smart, there you go.
You can be smart though if you need to and
so the last one we'll just use is Print,
right?
Last time I think we
had RM as the last one,
we'll just do print as
the last one this one.
So if length of opts.Args
doesn't is greater than 1
then we have ourselves a bit of a problem,
right?
And print this out, all right, so if the
length of our Args is greater than 1 we
have a problem, we expect print requires
0 or 1 arguments, but received this much.
And I realized up here that we forgot
to do the minus one, that'd be very,
very confusing for any of err users here.
And we're way over 80 characters,
which is considered a mortal sin of mine,
all right.
So there we go, we've done that now one
thing I noticed that we're doing in this
one that I just kind of blazed
through not really thinking about,
is that I'm actually checking what
type of operation is going on here.
So I could use this instead we could grab
that out probably is a bit better just
because you don't really want to be in the
business of doing the same logic twice.
It just feels a little bit cleaner.
So I'm just gonna do that right now,
operation just cuz it makes me
feel better about my life, okay?
All right, and so let's go,
operation equals Add, there you go
Remove and there we go, awesome.
So we have everything we need, return and
then of course we're just gonna
say opts.Args nil, fantastic.
So that did everything we needed to do and
all we have to do now is
just fill in the new Config.
And so just like I told you if we have
a bunch of errors we really have to think
about that beforehand, that's why we're
just gonna have this pretty consistent
interface across everything.
Which is gonna just look,
let's just do them one at a time, right?
So present working directory, err equals
get present working directory, and
just pass in of course the opts in which
we forgot right here and handle the err.
Config, err equals getConfig opts,
handle the err, right?
Look at this,
we're just flying through this.
It's like it's just so easy.
Print it again, let's have Args ,getArgs.
There we go, handle the err.
Now, all we need now is just
simply to return a Config.
Remember don't forget the pointer
parts and of course a nil for err and
do present working directory,
present working directory.
Config as config,
operation as getOperation
because we don't actually
need to worry about
an error on that one, and
of course Args as Args.
Put that in there and there we go.
We've actually done it, we've written the
entire thing a little bit more boilerplate
but I also liked the fact that we're
not doing exceptions as control flow.
>> For
me I've never been a big fan of that but
this feels pretty nice right we
got everything we need to do done.
And if we go back to our main file,
we can obviously go config,
err projector, NewConfig pass in the opts,
yanked out thing paste it down here.
What is this one?
Err, yeah, okay.
Well, I didn't put pointers everywhere
people, I forgot the pointer part here.
So, let's get that done really quickly.
Everyone, I hope you've done pointers
maybe you guys are better at paying
attention than I was.
[SOUND] There we go, awesome,
exact same error pops up again,
unable to get the option
unable to get the config
There we go,
we have this beautiful little config now.
Now, we can even print this out just to
make sure everything is working let's do
a nice little go run do this and it says,
hey, you have an unused import error.
So there's something about go that's
pretty interesting which is if you don't
use something it will always add error.
And so let's go back to our config,
remember when I was showing you
the errors package, I imported it.
I'm no longer using it,
you may not compile.
All right, there we go,
we got a beautiful thing.
Hey, we received,
print requires 0 or 1 arguments, but
we received two that's exactly right.
I did test foo, I did all that.
So this is perfect,
we exactly what we wanted to see.
So if I reduce this down, we should see
this beautiful Args that operation print
present working directory bass config bar,
fantastic, right?
How does everyone feel about that?
Feeling good?
What do you feel about go,
cuz it's kind of it's different, right?
It's not, I'd say it as easy or
as loosey goosey as typescript.
Definitely not as academic or difficult as
Rust but it's still fairly fast, right?
Maybe the error handling
you don't like and
it's kind of like everywhere
at all times I don't know.
I don't really mind the error handling, I
know people get really worked up about it.
But just like, I personally would rather
have everything show me it has an error,
and I don't have to think about it,
then something just like, it turns out
that breaks every now and then, right?
Like that kind of sucks, like JSON.parse.
It just doesn't tell you an error, but it
can certainly error and take things down.
So you should just know that it can error,
I'd rather have it come out.
Personal feeling, maybe people
don't share the same sentiment.
How do you feel about go,
any any positives?
Cuz I feel like people rag on go a lot for
this exact reason,
but I don't look at it as a as a negative,
right?
I am fine with this.
>> It seems like there's
a lot of boilerplate but
that it's the syntax is pretty tight.
It's like pretty concise
>> Yeah, that's how I feel, right?
It's very simple syntax, you have to
memorize just a little bit to be able to
make the jump from typescript to go, and
work go really wins which we're
not even seeing is concurrency.
It is just, you cannot use four
letter words on front and master but
it is amazing how easy it is to do that.
If you had some long running thing that
was gonna be operationally intensive,
the fact that I can just go,
go func and go do something, boom,
I'm concurrent all of a sudden, right?
I'm doing things, that's amazing.
And if you do it in Rust,
you're like installing packages,
your main has to be different It's hard,
right?
It's really easy to screw up and deadlock
yourself, go is pretty straight forward as
long as you're not doing mutes you're
pretty much never gonna deadlock yourself.
The moment you do mutases that's multiple
mutexes not to be confused with mutalist
from Starcraft2.
But if you do mutases you
can also deadlock yourself.
It's a lot of fun,
it's good times anyways.
So onto my favorite of them all,
which is beautiful Rust.
Is everybody ready for
some beautiful rust?
I really didn't feel that, but
I'm just gonna say you guys were a static.
Twitch chat you're not here right now, but
you should have saw them
front end master chat.
You're not here right now, but one person
even fist pumped, it was incredible.
It was amazing moment of life, all right.
So we're gonna go to our lib.rs,
that we always do.
And we first need to say, hey,
this is a new module we'll be using.
So I'm gonna copy and paste that, and
I'm gonna throw in the word config.
And I'm gonna say, hey, that doesn't exist
I know we're lying to it at the moment.
So let's create a config.rs, beautiful.
Now, it should exist notice that
it's saying, hey, it does exist,
we're not getting that weird
file not existing problem.